doc: nrf_desktop: Describe nRF54H USB support (#16077)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: applications/nrf_desktop/doc/usb_state.rst

  The USB legacy stack is used by default.
* :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_USB_STACK_NEXT <config_desktop_app_options>`
  The option enables USB next stack (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_USB_DEVICE_STACK_NEXT`).

>   This is the only USB stack that supports USB High-Speed and nRF54H20.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This is the only USB stack that supports USB High-Speed and the nRF54H20 DK.
```
not sure if this should say DK but feels like nRF54H20 is missing something

Author: SoC would be better here

Author: Or `platform` - to be consistent with the rest of documentation.

  The HID boot protocol integration is not yet fully tested and may not work properly.
  The secondary image slot background erase in :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu` may cause missing USB HID subscriptions after a USB cable is attached.

The USB next stack is the only stack that supports the USB High-Speed.

The only supported USB stack for the nRF54H20 is the USB next stack.

> The nRF54H20 supports the USB High-Speed.

Reviewer 2: I would suggest to move this information under `CONFIG_DESKTOP_USB_STACK_NEXT ` bullet point,
Maybe we can also simplify it a bit: `This is the only USB stack that supports USB High-Speed and nRF54H20.`

  The HID boot protocol integration is not yet fully tested and may not work properly.
  The secondary image slot background erase in :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu` may cause missing USB HID subscriptions after a USB cable is attached.

The USB next stack is the only stack that supports the USB High-Speed.
You can configure your preferred USB HID polling rate using the ``in-polling-rate`` property of DTS node compatible with ``zephyr,hid-device``.

> The lowest polling rate that is supported by the USB High-Speed is ``125`` us which corresponds to ``8`` kHz report rate.

Reviewer 3: Section `Low latency device configuration` also  mentions `CONFIG_USB_HID_POLL_INTERVAL_MS` that is only for legacy stack.
Maybe it should be moved there, or parts of this regarding the poll interval?

> The lowest polling rate that is supported by the USB High-Speed is ``125`` us which corresponds to ``8`` kHz report rate.

Reviewer 2: Please mention also the lowest polling rate for legacy targets (`1000`)

Reviewer 2: Seems that the newly added information would better fit under `USB HID configuration in USB next stack` (it's specific to USB next stack)

Author: It's pretty much mentioned there.

For the USB next stack, the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_USB_STACK_NEXT <config_desktop_app_options>` selects the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_USB_DEVICE_STACK_NEXT` Kconfig option.
Every USB HID-class instance is configured through a separate DTS node compatible with ``zephyr,hid-device``.
The DTS node configures, among others, the used HID boot protocol, the size of the longest HID input report, and the HID polling rate.

> You can configure your preffered USB HID polling rate using the ``in-polling-rate`` property of the DTS node.
> The lowest polling rate that is supported by the USB High-Speed is 125 us, which corresponds to an 8 kHz report rate.
> The lowest polling rate supported by devices that do not support USB High-Speed is 1000 us, which corresponds to 1 kHz report rate.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can configure your preferred USB HID polling rate using the ``in-polling-rate`` property of the DTS node.
The lowest polling rate that is supported by the USB High-Speed is 125 µs, which corresponds to an 8 kHz report rate.
The lowest polling rate supported by devices that do not support USB High-Speed is 1000 µs, which corresponds to 1 kHz report rate.
```

> The lowest polling rate that is supported by devices that do not support USB High-Speed is ``1000`` us which corresponds to ``1`` kHz report rate.

Reviewer: same suggestions as in description.rst file

The module also handles a HID keyboard LED output report received through USB from the connected host.
The module sends the report using :c:struct:`hid_report_event`, that is handled either by :ref:`nrf_desktop_hid_state` (for peripheral) or by the :ref:`nrf_desktop_hid_forward` (for dongle).

nRF54H20 support
================

> The only supported USB stack for the nRF54H20 is the USB next stack.

Reviewer 2: The first sentence should be moved to `Configuration` section I think

> Due to the nRF54H20 USB driver characteristics, following changes have been made in the USB state module to support the nRF54H20 platform:

Reviewer 2: `USB driver` -> `USB device controller (UDC)` ? (to be more consistent with Zephyr codebase)

> * The USB state module spawns a separate thread to handle initializing, enabling, and disabling the USB driver.

Reviewer 2: `USB driver` -> `USB stack` ? (we use USB stack APIs)

> * The module disables the USB driver when the USB cable is disconnected and enables the driver when the cable is connected.

Reviewer 2: `USB stack`

> Those changes are only applied to the nRF54H20 platform and do not affect other platforms.

Reviewer 2: Could we describe the related HW limitation here (explain a bit why these workarounds are used)?

The module also handles a HID keyboard LED output report received through USB from the connected host.
The module sends the report using :c:struct:`hid_report_event`, that is handled either by :ref:`nrf_desktop_hid_state` (for peripheral) or by the :ref:`nrf_desktop_hid_forward` (for dongle).

nRF54H20 support
================

> Due to the nRF54H20 USB device controller (UDC) characteristics, following changes have been made in the USB state module to support the nRF54H20 platform:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to the characteristics of the nRF54H20 USB Device Controller (UDC), several changes have been made in the USB state module to support the nRF54H20 platform:
```

> * The USB state module spawns a separate thread to handle initializing, enabling, and disabling the USB stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The USB state module creates a separate thread to initialize, enable, and disable the USB stack.
```

* The module disables the USB stack when the USB cable is disconnected and enables the stack when the cable is connected.

> Those changes are only applied to the nRF54H20 platform and do not affect other platforms.
> They are necessary to ensure proper USB stack operation on the nRF54H20 platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These changes are applicable to the nRF54H20 platform only.
They are necessary to ensure proper USB stack operation on the nRF54H20 platform.
```

Though, technically this whole chapter is named "nRF54H20 support", and this fact is repeated at the beginning of it, so I'd say it's pretty self-explanatory - maybe this part isn't needed? 

```suggestion
These changes are necessary to ensure proper USB stack operation on the nRF54H20 platform.
```

Author: I'd leave it. The changes that we made in USB state module that were necessary for nrf54h20 could have possibly affect other platforms that also use USB state module. Here, we explicitly say that they haven't.

> The USB stack cannot be initialized from the System workqueue thread, because it causes a deadlock.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The USB stack cannot be initialized from the system workqueue thread, because it causes a deadlock.
```

> Because of that, the separate thread is used to handle USB stack initialization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because of that, a separate thread is used to initialize the USB stack.
```

For more details, see the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_USB_INIT_THREAD <config_desktop_app_options>` Kconfig option.

> The UDC is powered down whenever the USB cable is disconnected and doesn't call appropriate callbacks to the USB stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The UDC is powered down whenever the USB cable is disconnected, failing to trigger the necessary callbacks to the USB stack.
```

> It may lead to the USB stack ending in a broken state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It may cause the USB stack to become non-functional.
```

> Disabling the USB stack on cable disconnection workarounds this issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can workaround this issue by disabling the USB stack upon disconnecting the cable.
```

Author: Maybe `The USB stack is disabled upon disconnecting the cable to work around this issue.`?

Reviewer: thanks for the explanation - sounds good!

The module also handles a HID keyboard LED output report received through USB from the connected host.
The module sends the report using :c:struct:`hid_report_event`, that is handled either by :ref:`nrf_desktop_hid_state` (for peripheral) or by the :ref:`nrf_desktop_hid_forward` (for dongle).

nRF54H20 support
================

Due to the nRF54H20 USB device controller (UDC) characteristics, following changes have been made in the USB state module to support the nRF54H20 platform:

* The USB state module spawns a separate thread to handle initializing, enabling, and disabling the USB stack.
* The module disables the USB stack when the USB cable is disconnected and enables the stack when the cable is connected.

Those changes are only applied to the nRF54H20 platform and do not affect other platforms.
They are necessary to ensure proper USB stack operation on the nRF54H20 platform.

The USB stack cannot be initialized from the System workqueue thread, because it causes a deadlock.
Because of that, the separate thread is used to handle USB stack initialization.

> For more details, see the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_USB_INIT_THREAD` Kconfig option.

Reviewer 2: Kconfigs specific to nRF Desktop must use the following syntax: 
```
:ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_USB_STACK_NEXT <config_desktop_app_options>
```
